# STVcalc, an application for fetal STV calculation
The application reads binary fetal cardiotocography (CTG) files and calculates fetal heart rate short term variation (STV), the number of accellerations and of decellerations. Currently this program works with binary files stored on a server using MOSOS CTG monitoring and archiving software (BMA health care solutions, Houten, the Netherlands) or with .prn files with a fetal heart rate (FHR) sample, uterine pressure and signal quality at 4 Hz (4 / second) per line. The binary files contains data in 24 bytes sampled for each second from the CTG machine. The first 4 byte pairs contain FHR and signal quality from channel 1, the next 4 bytepairs for channel 2 (twin registration). Byte pair 10 contains 2 values of uterine pressure (sampled at 2 Hz). The last byte is an end of line code. Other byte pairs are reserved for other fetal or maternal information and use depends on addition of extra modules on the CTG machine (like blood pressure, maternal CTG or fetal oxygen saturation). The application's design follows published documentation of the FetalCare system (Huntleigh Healthcare Ltd, Cardiff, UK) for STV calculation. Spyder (Python 3.6) ws used for development. A description of the application and comparison with the FetalCare system is has been published (Wolf, H. et al; J. Perinat. Med. 2019; 47(4): 439–447). A second publication explores STV cut-off levels in a population of women with early fetal growth restriction <32 weeks.(Wolf, H. et al. ; Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology 2019; doi: 10.1002/uog.21887).

There are two versions, one is a python source code file (A, in repository STVcalc) and the other version is a compiled executable (B, in repository STVexe). Both versions are packed in a 7zip file.

A: The python source file is in the repository STVcalc. For installation follow the instructions there. NOTE: this is version 1.7, whit a modification of epoch and STV calculation by median instead of mean.

B: This repository STVexe contains five 7zip files with the executable program. Click on the green button [Clone or Download], select the tab [Download]. The complete folder with all files will then be downloaded to a zip file "STVexe-master.zip". Unpack this zip file to an empty folder. Then make a new sub-folder STVcalculationSingle. Unpack the four 7zip files (STVexeFiles_A.7z, STVexeFiles_B.7z, STVexeFiles_C.7z and STVexeFiles_D.7z) into this folder. Click STVcalculationSingle.exe or STVcalculationSingle.bat to start the program. If you like to start from the base folder then copy STVcalculationSingle.bat to there.

Both versions function identically. After start of the program a file search window will open to select a CTG file in the folder DatCTGfiles. After selection of a CTG file the CTG is opened and calculations are shown in the upper part of the screen. Buttons on top of the screen are available to deselect part of the CTG, to restore complete selection after deselection, to classify decelerations if present and to select a new CTG file. When he program is closed or a new CTG file is selected the data are stored in a text file named STVexport.txt, which is an ASCI file with semi-colon separations and will appear in the working folder. The file contains the baseline FHR, STV., LTV , High LTV minutes %,, Low LTV minutes %, the STV/LTV Z-score, a warning if sinusoid pattern is likely or baseline fitting can be in error, the duration of the CTG (minutes), valid minutes, lost minutes percentage, accellerations, decelleration number, decelerations with more than 20 lost beats, and the description of decelerations which should be entered in the selection box.

A more extensive application is available on request, which opens CTG data from the MOSOS server and stores results in a MsAccess database. For other storage systems the interface for reading binary data has to be adapted. We can assist for this. To do this we need a description of the storage format or you have to send a number of CTG files to determine the storage format.

